- A possible resolution
to the Fermi paradox
and new targets to search
for extraterrestrial life
in space, this is a
Gaia News Breakdown.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
- Anyone curious about the
existence of extraterrestrials
has heard about
the Fermi paradox,
named after famed
physicist Enrico Fermi.
The story goes: in a
lunchtime conversation
with other scientists
who reasoned
that given the vast size
and age of the universe,
it stands to reason there
must be other intelligent life
out there, to which Fermi
asked where is everybody?
Now, astrobiologist Michael
Wong of the Carnegie Institution
for Science and Stuart
Bartlett of the California
Institute of Technology
offer their hypothesis.
And it's a bit dark.
Using studies of the
growth of cities on Earth,
they argue that
civilizations grow infinitely
but in a finite time.
This infinite growth of
population and overuse
of energy will eventually
lead to the death
of the civilization, or
possibly saving themselves,
writing, quote, "we propose
a new resolution to the Fermi
paradox.
Civilizations either
collapse from burnout
or redirect themselves to
prioritizing homeostasis,
a state where cosmic
expansion is no longer a goal,
making them difficult
to detect remotely."
So they argue if an advanced
civilization in space
has grown like cities on
Earth, they have died out
or, if they recognized their
dire situation early enough,
have shifted priorities from
interplanetary exploration
to planetary survival
through homeostasis.
The authors note that
this is just a hypothesis
and is intended
to, quote, "provoke
discussion, introspection,
and future work."
Meanwhile, a possible
new target in the search
for extraterrestrial life.
A new study out of the
University of Copenhagen
shows nearly half of
sun-sized stars are binary.
Since Earth, the only known
planet with intelligent life,
orbits a single star,
the sun, astronomers
have looked for
Earth like planets
with a single star
in their search
for extraterrestrial life.
Now, professor Jes Kristian
Jorgensen, who led the study,
says planetary systems that
form around binary stars
do so in a way that
is much different
than around single stars,
saying in a statement, quote,
"the result is exciting
since the search
for extraterrestrial
life will be equipped
with several new, extremely
powerful instruments
within the coming years.
This enhances the
significance of understanding
how planets are formed around
different types of stars.
Such results may
pinpoint places which
would be especially
interesting to probe
for the existence of life."
The researchers note that the
system is too young for planets
to have formed but hope
to observe the formation
of planetary systems.
And perhaps there, we will
see the first evidence
of intelligent life
growing in outer space.
For a new perspective, this
is a Gaia News Breakdown.
For more information
on this topic,
check out this content on Gaia.